# Global config

The global config, named `Danger zone` in Otoroshi, is the place to configure Otoroshi globally. 

> Warning: In this page, the configuration is really sensitive and affect the global behaviour of Otoroshi.


### Misc. Settings


* `Maintenance mode` : It pass every single service in maintenance mode. If an user calls a service, the maintenance page will be displayed
* `No OAuth login for BackOffice` : Forces admins to login only with user/password or user/password/u2F device
* `API Read Only`: Freeze the Otoroshi datastore in read only mode. Only people with access to the actual underlying datastore will be able to disable this.
* `Auto link default` : When no group is specified on a service, it will be assigned to default one
* `Use circuit breakers` : Use circuit breaker on all services
* `Use new http client as the default Http client` : All http calls will use the new http client by default
* `Enable live metrics` : Enable live metrics in the Otoroshi cluster. Performs a lot of writes in the datastore
* `Digitus medius` : Use middle finger emoji as a response character for endless HTTP responses.
* `Limit conc. req.` : Limit the number of concurrent request processed by Otoroshi to a certain amount. Highly recommended for resilience
* `Use X-Forwarded-* headers for routing` : When evaluating routing of a request, X-Forwarded-* headers will be used if presents
* `Max conc. req.` : Maximum number of concurrent requests processed by otoroshi.
* `Max HTTP/1.0 resp. size` : Maximum size of an HTTP/1.0 response in bytes. After this limit, response will be cut and sent as is. The best value here should satisfy (maxConcurrentRequests * maxHttp10ResponseSize) < process.memory for worst case scenario.
* `Max local events` : Maximum number of events stored.
* `Lines` : *deprecated* 

### IP address filtering settings

* `IP allowed list`: Only IP addresses that will be able to access Otoroshi exposed services
* `IP blocklist`: IP addresses that will be refused to access Otoroshi exposed services
* `Endless HTTP Responses`: IP addresses for which each request will return around 128 Gb of 0s


### Quotas settings

* `Global throttling`: The max. number of requests allowed per second globally on Otoroshi
* `Throttling per IP`: The max. number of requests allowed per second per IP address globally on Otoroshi

### Analytics: Elastic dashboard datasource (read)

* `Cluster URI`: Elastic cluster URI
* `Index`: Elastic index 
* `Type`: Event type (not needed for elasticsearch above 6.x)
* `User`: Elastic User (optional)
* `Password`: Elastic password (optional)
* `Version`: Elastic version (optional, if none provided it will be fetched from cluster)
* `Apply template`: Automatically apply index template
* `Check Connection`: Button to test the configuration. It will displayed a modal with checked point, and if the case of it's successfull, it will displayed the found version of the Elasticsearch and the index used
* `Manually apply index template`: try to put the elasticsearch template by calling the api of elasticsearch
* `Show index template`: try to retrieve the current index template presents in elasticsearch
* `Client side temporal indexes handling`: When enabled, Otoroshi will manage the creation of indexes. When it's disabled, Otoroshi will push in the same index
* `One index per`: When the previous field is enabled, you can choose the interval of time between the creation of a new index in elasticsearch 
* `Custom TLS Settings`: Enable the TLS configuration for the communication with Elasticsearch
* `TLS loose`: if enabled, will block all untrustful ssl configs
* `TrustAll`: allows any server certificates even the self-signed ones
* `Client certificates`: list of client certificates used to communicate with elasticsearch
* `Trusted certificates`: list of trusted certificates received from elasticsearch


### Statsd settings

* `Datadog agent`: The StatsD agent is a Datadog agent
* `StatsD agent host`: The host on which StatsD agent is listening
* `StatsD agent port`: The port on which StatsD agent is listening (default is 8125)


### Backoffice auth. settings

* `Backoffice auth. config`: the authentication module used in front of Otoroshi. It will be used to connect to Otoroshi on the login page

### Let's encrypt settings

* `Enabled`: when enabled, Otoroshi will have the possiblity to sign certificate from let's encrypt notably in the SSL/TSL Certificates page 
* `Server URL`: ACME endpoint of let's encrypt 
* `Email addresses`: (optional) list of addresses used to order the certificates 
* `Contact URLs`: (optional) list of addresses used to order the certificates 
* `Public Key`: used to ask a certificate to let's encrypt, generated by Otoroshi 
* `Private Key`: used to ask a certificate to let's encrypt, generated by Otoroshi 


### CleverCloud settings

Once configured, you can register one clever cloud app of your organization directly as an Otoroshi service.

* `CleverCloud consumer key`: consumer key of your clever cloud OAuth 1.0 app
* `CleverCloud consumer secret`: consumer secret of your clever cloud OAuth 1.0 app
* `OAuth Token`: oauth token of your clever cloud OAuth 1.0 app
* `OAuth Secret`: oauth token secret of your clever cloud OAuth 1.0 app 
* `CleverCloud orga. Id`: id of your clever cloud organization

###  Global scripts

Global scripts will be deprecated soon, please use global plugins instead (see the next section)!

###  Global plugins

* `Enabled`: enabled all global plugins
* `Plugins`: list of added plugins to your instance
* `Plugin configuration`: each added plugin have a configuration that you can override from this field

###  Proxies

In this section, you can add a list of proxies for :

* Proxy for alert emails (mailgun)
* Proxy for alert webhooks
* Proxy for Clever-Cloud API access
* Proxy for services access
* Proxy for auth. access (OAuth, OIDC)
* Proxy for client validators
* Proxy for JWKS access
* Proxy for elastic access

Each proxy has the following fields 

* `Proxy host`: host of proxy
* `Proxy port`: port of proxy
* `Proxy principal`: user of proxy
* `Proxy password`: password of proxy
* `Non proxy host`: IP address that can access the service

###  Quotas alerting settings

* `Enable quotas exceeding alerts`: When apikey quotas is almost exceeded, an alert will be sent 
* `Daily quotas threshold`: The percentage of daily calls before sending alerts
* `Monthly quotas threshold`: The percentage of monthly calls before sending alerts

###  User-Agent extraction settings

* `User-Agent extraction`: Allow user-agent details extraction. Can have impact on consumed memory. 

###  Geolocation extraction settings

Extract an geolocation for each call to Otoroshi.

###  Tls Settings

* `Use random cert.`: Use the first available cert none matches the current domain
* `Default domain`: When the SNI domain cannot be found, this one will be used to find the matching certificate 
* `Trust JDK CAs (server)`: Trust JDK CAs. The CAs from the JDK CA bundle will be proposed in the certificate request when performing TLS handshake 
* `Trust JDK CAs (trust)`: Trust JDK CAs. The CAs from the JDK CA bundle will be used as trusted CAs when calling HTTPS resources 
* `Trusted CAs (server)`: Select the trusted CAs you want for TLS terminaison. Those CAs only will be proposed in the certificate request when performing TLS handshake 


###  Auto Generate Certificates

* `Enabled`: Generate certificates on the fly when they not exist
* `Reply Nicely`: When not allowed domain name, accept connection and display a nice error message 
* `CA`: certificate CA used to generate missing certificate
* `Allowed domains`: Allowed domains
* `Not allowed domains`: Allowed domains
  

###  Global metadata

* `Tags`: tags attached to the global config
* `Metadata`: metadata attached to the global config

### Actions at the bottom of the page

* `Recover from a full export file`: Load global configuration from a previous export
* `Full export`: Export with all created entities
* `Full export (ndjson)`: Export your full state of database to ndjson format
* `JSON`: Get the global config at JSON format 
* `YAML`: Get the global config at YAML format 
* `Enable Panic Mode`: Log out all users from UI and prevent any changes to the database by setting the admin Otoroshi api to read-only. The only way to exit of this mode is to disable this mode directly in the database. 